Updates to Declarative Shadow DOM adopedStyleSheets (#905)
MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers: ShadowDOM/explainer.md

The specification of `@sheet` could be modified to split the *definition* of stylesheets from the *application* of the style rules. With this modification, `@sheet` would *define* a stylesheet with its own set of rules, but not  *apply* the rules automatically. This would allow for defining stylesheets in a light DOM context and applying them only to the shadow roots.

With this behavior, the following example would have a gray background and blue text only within the Shadow DOM:
```html
<style>
  @sheet sheet1 { *: background-color: gray; }
  @sheet sheet2 { *: color: blue; }
</style>
<span>I am in the light DOM</span>
<template shadowrootmode="open" adoptedstylesheets="sheet1, sheet2">
  <span>I'm in the shadow DOM</span>
</template>
 ```

The light DOM could opt into particular stylesheets defined by `@sheet` via existing mechanisms such as `@import`:

```html
<style>
  @sheet sheet1 { *: background-color: gray; }
  @sheet sheet2 { *: color: blue; }
  @import sheet("sheet1");
  @import sheet("sheet2");
</style>
 ```

A similar mechanism for `@sheet` was proposed in [this](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/5629#issuecomment-2016582527) comment.

> Stylesheets can be adopted though multiple layers of Shadow DOM as shown in the following example:

Reviewer: I wonder if we should add a note that because the sheets are not global, the identifier would need to be passed down at each layer if desired to share in a nested Shadow DOM context, as illustrated in the example below

Author: Good idea. I modified your test slightly to include the `@import` bit as well: https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/pull/905/commits/ffdcb3b80732267e53985278fd1a3200278d102b

</template> 
 ```

The light DOM could opt into particular stylesheets defined by `@sheet` via existing mechanisms such as `@import`: 

```html
<style> 
  @sheet sheet1 { *: background-color: gray; } 
  @sheet sheet2 { *: color: blue; } 
  @import sheet("sheet1"); 
  @import sheet("sheet2"); 
</style> 
 ```

A similar mechanism for `@sheet` was proposed in [this](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/5629#issuecomment-2016582527) comment. 

Stylesheets can be adopted though multiple layers of Shadow DOM as shown in the following example: 

```html
<style> 
  @sheet sheet1 { *: color: blue; } 
</style> 
<span>I am in the light DOM</span>
<template shadowrootmode="open" adoptedstylesheets="sheet1"> 
  <span>I'm in the first layer of the shadow DOM and my text should be blue</span> 
  <template shadowrootmode="open" adoptedstylesheets="sheet1"> 
    <span>I'm in the second layer of the shadow DOM and my text should be blue</span> 
    <template shadowrootmode="open"> 
      <span>I'm in the third layer of the shadow DOM and my text should not be blue because this layer doesn't have `adoptedstylesheets`</span> 
    </template> 
  </template> 
</template> 
 ```

> Text within both shadow roots in the above example should be blue due to the `adoptedstylesheets` at each Shadow DOM layer. Note that it is not currently possible to export stylesheets *out* of shadow roots. 

Reviewer 2: From offline chat - Requiring @import in shadow DOM (same as light DOM) seems like it'd solve this, and make the usage feel more consistent.

> Text within both shadow roots in the above example should be blue due to the `adoptedstylesheets` at each Shadow DOM layer. Note that it is not currently possible to export stylesheets *out* of shadow roots. 

Author: Done in latest commit, great suggestion!

    :host {  
      color: red  
    }  

> </style> 

Author: Removed these globally via this commit - happy to do this in a separate PR instead: https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/pull/905/commits/c644b33f25167f0d283e4fc5346e38acf7ab2c1e

      <!-- -->  
</template>
```

> One requirement of this approach is that the current `adoptedStylesheets` JavaScript property would need to lift the “constructable” requirement for `adoptedStylesheets`. This was recently agreed upon by the CSSWG but has not been implemented yet: [ Can we lift the restriction on constructed flag for adoptedStylesheets?](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/10013#issuecomment-2165396092) 

Author: These are all over this document (every newline is preceded by a blank space) - should I remove all of them?

> One requirement of this approach is that the current `adoptedStylesheets` JavaScript property would need to lift the “constructable” requirement for `adoptedStylesheets`. This was recently agreed upon by the CSSWG but has not been implemented yet: [ Can we lift the restriction on constructed flag for adoptedStylesheets?](https://github.com/w3c/csswg-drafts/issues/10013#issuecomment-2165396092) 

Author: Fixed globally via this commit: https://github.com/MicrosoftEdge/MSEdgeExplainers/pull/905/commits/c644b33f25167f0d283e4fc5346e38acf7ab2c1e

The script version of this already exists via the [adoptedStylesheets](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/ShadowRoot/adoptedStyleSheets) property: 
```html
import sheet from './styles.css' assert { type: 'css' }; // or new CSSStyleSheet(); 
shadowRoot.adoptedStyleSheets = [sheet]; 
```

## Polyfills

Web developers often seek polyfills to allow them to use new web platform features while falling back gracefully in user agents where such features are not supported. A common strategy is to use JavaScript for polyfills. An example of this could be the following: 

```html
<script> 
  function supportsDeclarativeAdoptedStyleSheets() { 

>     return document.createElement('template')["adoptedStyleSheets"] == undefined; 

Author: This had other issues too, thank you!

  } 

  if (!supportsDeclarativeAdoptedStyleSheets()) { 
    // AdoptedStyleSheets is not supported on <template> - apply polyfill. This polyfill could be an injected <link> tag. 
  } 
</script> 
```

> For the Declarative CSS Modules approach, [one suggestion](https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/10673#issuecomment-2453512552) is to bind the `<link>` tag's `href` attribute value to the CSS module identifier and add a new attribute (`noadoptedstylesheets`) to avoid double-applying stylesheets. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
There was also a [suggestion](https://github.com/whatwg/html/issues/10673#issuecomment-2453512552) for adding browser support to enable falling back to a normal `<link>` tag without the use of script, by binding the `<link>` tag's `href` attribute value to the CSS module identifier and adding a new attribute (`noadoptedstylesheets`) to avoid double-applying stylesheets. 
```

Optional suggestion for clarifying the purpose of this alternative.
